README.md, before:

✈️ XTechon Fly — Flight Booking System

A full-stack flight booking application built as part of the XTechon Internship Assignment.
The system supports flight listing, dynamic surge pricing, bookings with wallet deduction, PDF ticket generation, and booking history.

🚀 Features
🛫 Flight Discovery

View available flights with pagination (10 flights per page)

Clean and responsive UI

Stable sorting for predictable results

💸 Dynamic Surge Pricing

-Surge pricing is based on successful bookings

-If 3 bookings occur within 5 minutes for the same flight:

-Price increases by 10%

-Surge automatically expires 10 minutes after activation

-Users only see the final price (no internal surge indicators)

🧾 Booking Flow

-Check latest price before booking

-Wallet balance is validated atomically

-Booking fails gracefully if balance is insufficient

-Each successful booking generates:

-Unique PNR

-Booking record

-PDF ticket

📄 Ticket PDF Generation

-Ticket is generated using PDFKit

Contains:

-PNR

-Passenger name

-Flight ID

-Price paid

-Booking timestamp

-Ticket is sent via email

-Ticket can be downloaded again from booking history

📚 Booking History

-View all previous bookings

-Each booking shows:

-Flight details

-Amount paid

-Booking date

-PNR

-Download ticket option

🧠 Design Decisions

Surge pricing is triggered by successful bookings, not clicks or price checks
→ reflects real demand and prevents abuse

Backend handles all pricing logic to avoid client manipulation

No authentication was added to stay within assignment scope

MongoDB Atlas is used for persistence

Clean separation of concerns (routes, services, models)

🛠 Tech Stack
Frontend

React

React Router

Axios

Tailwind CSS

Backend

Node.js

Express.js

MongoDB (Atlas)

Mongoose

PDFKit

Nodemailer

📂 Project Structure
xtechon-flight/
├── client/ # React frontend
├── server/ # Node + Express backend
├── .gitignore
├── README.md

⚙️ How to Run Locally
1️⃣ Clone the repository
git clone <repo-url>
cd xtechon-flight

2️⃣ Backend setup
cd server
npm install

Create a .env file inside server/:

PORT=4000
MONGODB_URI=<your_mongodb_atlas_uri>
DEFAULT_WALLET_BALANCE=50000

Start the server:

npm run dev

3️⃣ Seed flights (optional but recommended)
node seed/seedFlights.js

This clears and reseeds the flights collection for predictable data.

4️⃣ Frontend setup
cd ../client
npm install
npm run dev

Frontend runs on:

http://localhost:5173

Backend runs on:

http://localhost:4000

🧪 API Overview
Get flights
GET /api/flights?page=1

Check price
GET /api/flights/:flightId/price

Book flight
POST /api/book

Get booking history
GET /api/bookings

📌 Notes

node_modules and .env are intentionally not committed

Pagination is server-side using skip + limit

Surge logic automatically resets after expiry

Project focuses on correctness, clarity, and scope adherence

👤 Author

Abhijeet Singh Rajput
B.Tech Mechanical Engineering
IIT (ISM) Dhanbad

Commit message:

update: deployment issues and hurdles

README.md, after:

✈️ XTechon Fly — Flight Booking System

A full-stack flight booking application built as part of the XTechon Internship Assignment.
The system supports flight listing, dynamic surge pricing, bookings with wallet deduction, PDF ticket generation, and booking history.

🚀 Features
🛫 Flight Discovery

View available flights with pagination (10 flights per page)

Clean and responsive UI

Stable sorting for predictable results

💸 Dynamic Surge Pricing

-Surge pricing is based on successful bookings

-If 3 bookings occur within 5 minutes for the same flight:

-Price increases by 10%

-Surge automatically expires 10 minutes after activation

-Users only see the final price (no internal surge indicators)

🧾 Booking Flow

-Check latest price before booking

-Wallet balance is validated atomically

-Booking fails gracefully if balance is insufficient

-Each successful booking generates:

-Unique PNR

-Booking record

-PDF ticket

📄 Ticket PDF Generation

-Ticket is generated using PDFKit

Contains:

-PNR

-Passenger name

-Flight ID

-Price paid

-Booking timestamp

-Ticket is sent via email

-Ticket can be downloaded again from booking history

📚 Booking History

-View all previous bookings

-Each booking shows:

-Flight details

-Amount paid

-Booking date

-PNR

-Download ticket option

🧠 Design Decisions

Surge pricing is triggered by successful bookings, not clicks or price checks
→ reflects real demand and prevents abuse

Backend handles all pricing logic to avoid client manipulation

No authentication was added to stay within assignment scope

MongoDB Atlas is used for persistence

Clean separation of concerns (routes, services, models)

🛠 Tech Stack
Frontend

React

React Router

Axios

Tailwind CSS

Backend

Node.js

Express.js

MongoDB (Atlas)

Mongoose

PDFKit

Nodemailer

📂 Project Structure
xtechon-flight/
├── client/ # React frontend
├── server/ # Node + Express backend
├── .gitignore
├── README.md

⚙️ How to Run Locally
1️⃣ Clone the repository
git clone <repo-url>
cd xtechon-flight

2️⃣ Backend setup
cd server
npm install

Create a .env file inside server/:

PORT=4000
MONGODB_URI=<your_mongodb_atlas_uri>
DEFAULT_WALLET_BALANCE=50000

Start the server:

npm run dev

3️⃣ Seed flights (optional but recommended)
node seed/seedFlights.js

This clears and reseeds the flights collection for predictable data.

4️⃣ Frontend setup
cd ../client
npm install
npm run dev

Frontend runs on:

http://localhost:5173

Backend runs on:

http://localhost:4000

🧪 API Overview
Get flights
GET /api/flights?page=1

Check price
GET /api/flights/:flightId/price

Book flight
POST /api/book

Get booking history
GET /api/bookings

📌 Notes

node_modules and .env are intentionally not committed

Pagination is server-side using skip + limit

Surge logic automatically resets after expiry

Project focuses on correctness, clarity, and scope adherence

## Deployment

This project is intended to be run locally for evaluation.  
Cloud deployment was tested, but due to free-tier SMTP and filesystem limitations, local execution provides the most reliable experience.


👤 Author

Abhijeet Singh Rajput<br>
B.Tech Mechanical Engineering<br>
IIT (ISM) Dhanbad<br>
